and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i am your host sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoice and excited
to be joined by
benjamin dennehy today benjamin is the
uk's most tasted
most hated sales trainer this is
actually his third time appearing on the
show
and his last two episodes are currently
one of the most downloaded
on the podcast and the most viewed on
the youtube right now
and his last episode with us was all
about
how to handle inbound leads which i
loved
and we had some really really good
feedback so we've got you back on
benjamin how you doing sir
i'm really good thanks for having me
back thank you to the audience if
they're suckers for this punishment
i will gladly talk to them yes good man
good man so we're we're basically
following on from before so before we
said look this is how you attack an
inbound lead
and now we're saying this is how you run
a demo this is how you do your
presentation
although you've told me benjamin when
when we had our warm-up before we uh
before we hit record you said
now let's not do how to do a demo let's
do why you should not do a demo
um so before we jump into this what was
the thought process
behind that benjamin well the thought
process is
this so i've got a caveat this because
there'll be a lot of people
freaking out particularly in software in
the tech world or whatever it is right
so yeah of course
demos have a function but often they are
done in the wrong place at the wrong
time they're often done too early and
they're often done as a crutch
they're often done as a means of selling
in the instrument
itself or they're done at the behest of
the prospect that's made no commitment
to buy regardless of what they see they
just want to have a look at it because
they're intellectually curious
some will buy some right and
my view is is that the demo should be
the presentation but there's no point
presenting something until you know for
a fact
that if they see what they like they can
afford it and will buy it
sure it's all about slowing down to
speed things up
and so doing a demo is great but at the
right time and i like to say it's a
crutch for most salespeople
if you just have to do a demo when
someone buys why do you need people
yeah yeah because you can automate so
much now right what about this and what
is the purpose of the human oh they're
there to answer questions exactly
they're the free consultant talking
through the process
so yeah if people just want a demo just
say go to the website it's all up on
youtube watch it yourself
oh no no no i don't want now i still
want to have to pick your brain
oh well if you want to pick our brain
you have to follow our process first
gotcha i just want that well then you
pick so that's why i don't believe
you should do them as a part of the
process
i can't wait to get into this because of
the point you just made because so many
companies in the b2b space especially in
the tech and the software as a service
in a sas space
that's the process isn't like you head
on to their website if you've seen it on
an ad or you've seen their
email newsletter whatever process drove
you to that landing page with their
website
and nearly every call to action on the
website is book a free demo or a
question
and the first step is probably you have
a discovery call or some kind of
discovery or email
and then they want to they want to share
their screen they want to get on a zoom
as a screen show and go through it so
perhaps we should and i want to stir a
few people up but hopefully share some
useful insights which that means we can
waste less of our time
talking to people like you say that want
free consultations and actually get more
deals over the line with qualified
prospects
so on our last episode which you can
catch on how to handle inbound lead with
benjamin um
we talked about all about kind of having
conversations with leads that come
inbound
and moving them through to kind of a
qualification process
but let's say we've done that um what's
kind of the next steps in terms of
saying
well you said we don't need to run a
demo we don't need to do a pros or the
presentation
what kind of comes next after we've
realized that this is a qualified lead
and this is perhaps someone we could do
business with
well if i've qualified them and by
qualified them it means
i know that they have problems that our
software or whatever it is i'm going to
show them can fix
so we know that we know why those
problems exist
and that they're motivated to fix them
so that's important it's not
you need to know they have problems you
can fix them you need to know that
they're motivated to fix them and why
secondly you need to know that they can
afford the solution when they see it
yeah this is a this is really bad how
many times have people given a
presentation for whatever it is
and the prospect says i love it i think
it's great but it's a little bit out of
our price range
sure yeah or i can't afford it or
it turns out that the person you present
the demo or the solution to does it
ultimately make the decision
yeah how many times have you been
presenting something to somebody who
said they are the decision maker you do
your whole
dog and pony show and then they say you
know what i love it if they're up to me
we'd start today but fortunate i gotta
run this by my
director that is the that is probably
the number one thing i've heard in the
past like i've done everything it's like
that looks great but i need to speak to
the fd the financial director it's like
why didn't you mention this before but
then
again i i should blame myself because i
didn't qualify hard enough it's your
fault because you never asked yes
exactly why so this is what i said if a
prospect's qualified
then i'll present i don't have an issue
with presenting anything but they've got
to be qualified so i want to know
do you have a problem i can fix do you
want to fix it and i'm convinced
you want to fix it can you afford it
when you see it
and is the person that has to be there
to make decision gonna be there if you
get all those four things
i will present to you what i do
now that's hard that's why sales people
love doing the demo
because it's hard to do that it's hard
to get those four things lined up
because you get that wall so i work i've
worked with tech and software companies
and they've eliminated the demo as part
of the process for selling
because all of them as you said free
demo book a demo
and it's like why how many demos a month
do you do we do about 20.
how long do they on average take half an
hour so that's 20 times higher it's 10
hours
and you work out how much it costs how
many of those demos go on to
become sales about 25 30
so the cost of doing a demo in and of
itself is expensive
um so if you eliminate it earlier and do
it later eliminate people that can't buy
it
if they like it and can afford it that's
when and only when you should do a demo
yeah yeah yeah so you raised an
interesting point and just before when
we get into kind of when you should do a
demo and how to do it
so and i think i've certainly been
guilty of this past and i'm sure a lot
of other
sales professionals or business owners
probably have
when we go back to qualification you
mentioned make sure the prospect's got
problems you can fix they're actually
motivated to get it done
they've got the cash to afford your
solution they've actually
you understand who's part of the
decision making process
um but perhaps we should talk a little
bit about the psychology of this because
i think as salespeople we love to skip
steps right
um so we thought oh there's an inbound
lead yes let's talk to them they're
probably going to buy
i haven't had an inbound lead in so long
i just want to get this deal done
yeah um so we're probably so motivated
to
push them through this process we
perhaps forget to qualify hard enough
do you think that's quite often the case
well without doubt uh
let me face it most sales people are
worms and they're too scared to
challenge and one of the things i have
to teach all my clients is your job is
to challenge a prospect
a prospect may be wrong in what they
want to achieve a prospect may be wrong
in the solution they think they have
you don't know that until you question
them so you also see something
that they haven't had an inbound lead
for a while and they're excited well
there's the birth problem
they're excited that means they're
emotionally attached to this process
if you're emotionally attached to the
outcome of anything you're not a
professional
imagine your lawyer getting excited
because somebody thought great we could
have a trial
um well why don't we forget all the
challenging the evidence but just get
right to the summing up
yeah yeah yeah it'd be ridiculous that's
not how a professional behaves a
professional's job is at all times to
remain
dispassionate yes be passionate about
what you do
but be dispassionate in how you go about
uh
getting the other person to discover
they need it so
yeah from the outset if you're excited
about
in fact at the moment i know i feel
excitement in the sale i know i'm going
to screw up
the moment because it means the prospect
has said or done something that's made
me think they're going to buy
it's usually a fault signal it's not
normally just true
and it's um challenge i found from my
experience personally
it's quite often the case through either
lack of prospecting or lack of marketing
to actually
drive these leads so the lead the leads
coming in are so dry that when something
comes in you think i need to close this
when in fact it's just a lack of
abundance really
of course it goes like saying that you
should have a full sales pipeline of
leads coming in daily
so then you'll never have to stress
about having one and closing it because
you've got so many other opportunities
to rely on
um so i think that's quite often the
problem on that side well
that is a fundamental problem because
most sales people don't like prospecting
so anyone would rather sit back and take
an order
let's be honest i mean that's a great
you know mcdonald's has made a billion
dollar business out of not selling
anything right
of course yeah you just go on and place
an order so it is a very good model but
you've got to have the right product in
the right
you're not with sas i mean this is
something i'll give you uh this is a
question i ask
and it's certainly a question i would
start asking when i work in the sas
world
if somebody comes to me the first
question that's on my mind
that i need to understand is this and
this is a great question and every time
i've asked this question
i've actually got an answer i'm quite
pleased to hear so if somebody come to
me
and i get it a lot nowadays people
contact me they reach out to me
i just you want to add a caveat i i
won't talk to someone unless they
actually pay to talk to me now
you know 85 percent of inbound leads uh
hey beans would really love your stuff
we'd love to have a chat with you about
some training
now i know 85 of those are just people
wanting to chew my ear or just want to
have a chit chat
or or are curious about what i do i just
want to understand a little bit more
that does
that's not going to make me money so why
i say look book a consult call it's a
hundred quid
uh if i decide i can't help you or we
decide to work with each other i'll give
the hundred quid back
eighty-five percent of people don't
bother to do that so i've eliminated
eighty-five percent of taking so if
you've got a big sign saying free demo
you're attracting tire kickers and time
wasters
of the 15 that pay the hundred pounds
i've got a 95 percent close rate
that that speaks volumes really doesn't
it volumes my job as a salesperson is to
eliminate
tire kickers free demos free quotes
attract
tire kickers yeah you might as well
dress up as a giant turd and advertise
the fly
oh dear um okay so
on that i mean this this raises a bit of
a tricky one really
so um in terms of in terms of a lot of
companies do it we do it um
we advertise the fact that we can give
you some kind of free initial assessment
or consultation
so does probably 95 percent of software
companies that i've ever seen
um do you think the route i mean this
goes we won't go too much down this
rabbit hole but do you think that
instead of offering because you alert
you alluded to it earlier benjamin
that some of the companies you've helped
um instead of doing that demo
after they've fully qualified a prospect
they do something else um
so what do in your opinion what what
should be the next step
should it be a demo or should it be
something this is a
i can't give an answer to that because
there's so many different products very
very open-ended appreciated it's very
it's very broad but i mean
if you're selling a sophisticated system
that's going to require more than just
showing someone a pretty
you know demonstration then you're gonna
have to have a scoping exercise we've
got to properly come in and bespoke and
draw up
so that's one thing um if it literally
is
we've only got this software and once
you see the software
so i would qualify so i'd find out what
they want and need to see see this is
the other reason people don't buy
software
yep sales people well what's the one
thing everybody loves talking about
themselves or their products so what's
the number one thing someone's selling
software loves talking about i would
imagine the product
themselves the product right so what
they want to do is their products like
their first born child and someone says
i'm very interested in your little can i
have a lot
can you and then they tell you all the
stories about how it did this and how it
did that how it does this
and you're like whoa whoa i just wanted
to have a quick peek yeah yeah
and what happens is sales people they
get on these demos
and they start to show you all the stuff
that they like about it
oh and you can do this ah and if you
want to be able to do this you can do
that and i show you all the stuff
without once figuring out did the person
who requested the demo
need or want to see any of this because
what happens is you show them this
beautiful system and then a person gets
to the end and says well no i really
like it i do but i mean
i don't need 80 of what it does
and then and they go you see that's why
you guys must charge 50 quid a month for
user i mean i've been looking at other
products and they're about 12 pound a
month and
you know you can pick yeah but they're
not as sophisticated but i don't want
the sophistication i want the
so if you figure out what they want to
see and why they need to see it
and if they saw it and they believed it
would fix their problem would they buy
it
and they say yes then that's where you
show them
yep and then what happens after they've
bought it they suddenly discover it does
all these other things and they start to
think
this is actually better than i thought
so you don't scare them off you actually
engage them and they think crikey this
does more than i thought i quite liked
this i didn't know it did that
i wish they told me no they don't wish
it at all because if you told them
before you knew you wanted it you would
say i don't need that
yeah so that's why it's dangerous to do
a demo because it's the demo
is not done for the benefit of the
prospect it's done
for the trans person to satisfy their
own emotional need
to talk about themselves yeah yeah yeah
and i think it's what a lot of
salespeople business owners are scared
to do when it comes to qualifying out
um which we talked talked about a bit in
the last episode because
opium right you know everything else
there's a hopian problem yeah um
you know this is also interesting uh the
fact that everyone has to advertise
they're free
tells you that at one point you had to
pay for this sort of stuff
people never used to do quotes for free
someone one day stuck aside up on the
side of the building to see three quotes
it's a fair point it's a fair point
yeah exactly so you can't
let's put it this way you can sell
proposals
you can sell scoping documents you can
sell quotes
people that say you can't just don't
know how to do it because if it couldn't
be done
i do it my clients do it they say that's
different no no no no it's not it's just
because i know how to do it
and getting good at that means sometimes
you hear
no earlier one sales people
don't like hearing no yeah and so they
would rather
hope that if they show them the system
it'll do enough to win them over and
they'll buy
yeah right and they don't care how much
time is wasted on that
because if one and four by well it's
worth it isn't it
not really 75 percent if it was a waste
of time would it not make sense just to
do it for the one
who you but then i'll be doing less of
them i know which means you've got to
look for more prospects no i don't like
prospecting i'd rather sit back and take
orders
or just talk that is literally the
dilemma
um so let's perhaps look at both angles
if we
can um so let's look at the fact perhaps
we're more of a bespoke company
and everything we do is to order um and
then we can go on to a software
maybe a software as a service example
that's perhaps got more of a generic
solution where we have to do a demo
um so if we're more of a custom outfit
and everything we do is to order and
like you mentioned earlier
instead of once we've fully qualified
the press prospect they've got problems
we can fix the motivate they've got
budget the decision makers are going to
be involved
um how do what are some best practices
when it comes to
saying look this is our process the the
next step is we need to scope this out
in full
so we even need to do i can see him cool
we need to come to your office whatever
it may be
but you're gonna have to pay for this
service yeah um because i know a lot of
people tuning in probably think wait
i need to charge people for this service
how do i do this how do i ask for it
well think of it this way think of it
like this logically if you can't sell a
200 pound
proposal how the hell are you going to
sell a 5 000 pound end product
yeah this is the fear the fear is i
don't really know if i can actually sell
5k let alone 200.
so i'll roll the dice and hope someone
will pay the 5k yeah
it avoids me having to confront the fact
that i can't actually sell i rely on
whatever i have to do that for me
so how do you sell these things you've
got to do them at the beginning
you see this is why people screw up if
you wait until the end of that first
conversation and then drop and oh by the
way
we charge for these documents you're
gonna get a lot of pushback because it's
the end of the meeting and they say well
look i've really enjoyed the chat well
i've got to go i'll be in touch
yep and because if you're following the
traditional model of selling
where you are you show up throw up and
hope you've done enough
you're always going to end with that so
i do it at the beginning
i tell them look um if we don't say no
to each other we have to agree our next
step
okay are you comfortable with that and
everyone says yes and then i don't give
the idea
shall i tell you what that is because
i've only got one
and no one ever says no let's leave it
as a surprise till the end yeah
no one ever does that what will happen
is and i teach this all the time what
what people will do if they try and use
that line
because they're scared of the answer
this is what they start to say every
client does this and i have to correct
them
what they say is this would you like me
to tell you what the next step
is or shall we leave that to the end and
the moment you say or shall we leave
that to the end guess what option the
prospect always chooses
is it the end leave it to the end why
because they know at the end there's no
pressure on them to make a decision
because they can exit so they don't want
right
so that's why if you give them the
option they'll always say no let's leave
it to the end so i don't give them the
option i go look i've only got one next
step in my world shall i tell you what
it is
and i go yeah and i go because if you
don't like it there's probably no point
in carrying on is there
gotcha and they go well no i guess not
this is the next step
and then i i've got a very sexy way of
making that next step seem value
and i explain what it's going to look
like and i say it's going to be this
we'll do this we'll do this it'll this
it'll be cost it will be time
all the bells and whistles how does that
sound does that sound like a good next
step to you
and they all say yeah and i go you know
what there are four things you can do
with that next step as well
you can shop it around i don't mind i
can't stop you
you can do it yourself i can't stop you
you could take it to your incumbent to
see if they can match what we've done or
for you give it to us
you're happy with those and they all say
yeah that's great now i've got them
hooked and i said oh but by the way
we don't do that for free that's gonna
cost you a thousand pounds two thousand
pound whatever it is
sure and then i lock him in i go so
knowing that could be the outcome of
this conversation do you still want to
go ahead
this is where they have to make it
there's no escape here but i don't know
if you can help me yet
but i haven't got anything from you
exactly so this is what i want you to
agree
if we don't say no to each other that is
what happens next
you have to control the process as a
salesperson i'm not here
to figure out how to sell to you i'm
here to educate you on how you buy from
me
you're the one with the problem i've got
a warehouse full of solutions
it's not my problem love it
yeah yeah yeah so you're you're making
best use of your time
right up front so before you've even got
into the nuts and bolts of
what they need their problems and such
you're literally saying this is how we
do business this is our process
like olympic um if you don't want to
finish this meeting and know that then
don't and then oh no
this is this is where they get scared
this is where the hope kicks him this is
what sales people are addicted to hope
yeah but this could be this could be the
big deal this could be this could be
no there's nothing there if this person
isn't willing to stump up 200 pound at
the end of this meeting and your
products worth 5k what does that tell
you
they're not serious they're probably not
going to do anything they don't have any
money there's a lot more it tells you
about why this won't go
forward then it will go forward you're
not going to lose something because the
person
but maybe you will i don't know very few
and far between them
someone's that's outrageous i'm not
paying 300 pounds to properly scope out
fixing my problem for a 50 000 pound
solution that's crazy you're an idiot
never happens in fact all my clients
that do it
the reaction of the prospect is usually
the thing that
breath takes them because the most of
the time
not all the time but virtually most of
the time the reaction is the prospect
looks them and says
yeah okay that seems reasonable
yeah and do you think the issue is say
that again
i said they say that's reasonable ago
because it is reasonable
do you do you think the issue is that i
think
um whether it's a business owner whether
it's the sales person is just so used to
offering everything up for free this is
like a shock
to the system almost so they think if
they do ask for this they're just going
to get rejected instantly
well it's a company cultural thing um
despite all the wonderful marketing and
the fluffy words we can put about our
commitment to this
and our love of this and our values at
the end of the day most businesses don't
care how you get over the line so long
as you get over it
yeah and so the attitude is is just do
whatever you have to do to hit target as
long as it's not illegal
and we can justify it then do it that is
that is the approach despite all the
crap that people spin around
because if they didn't they'd actually
say actually guys the integrity of how
we get there is more important than
whether or not we get there but that's
not the attitude
imagine if um the legal profession was
like that look it doesn't matter how you
get an outcome
so long as it's good for your client it
doesn't matter how you get there
the legal system would break down
because it's not the outcome
that matters it's what everyone's done
to get to the outcome because that
ensures that whatever it is even if you
don't like it
probably right so that is the problem
sales people aren't allowed to do this i
i've trained people that have got really
good they've avoided doing proposals but
the company's insisted no you've got to
see a proposal you've got a quota
often they're vc backed companies
because these guys love to be able to
say we've got a hundred million pounds
in the pipeline
it's all bollocks yeah but it looks good
for the people on the back couldn't
agree more
i mean it's not it's not sold until the
cash is in the bank right
um so yeah like you say unless that
pipeline is going to close it's useless
i was supposed to give a talk to a
company and they hadn't paid me
and i said it was on the day and i said
we've got three hours because i'm not
turning up
and they paid did they yeah yeah you see
this is
it uh uh yeah there is no sale a promise
to pay
is not a sale a handshake is not a sale
even a signed contract is not itself the
only time you hold the sale is when that
money hits your bank account
couldn't agree more and this is what
people don't appreciate
yeah it's not a nod and a wink in a and
a po a po means nothing
yeah it's got to be cash in the bank and
so
that's why i'm in this i'm not in this
to make friends i have enough friends
i'm not at it to make enemies because i
don't need any enemies i'm in it to be
trusted and people trust me and i know
they trust because they pay me before i
get there
yeah now you have to be trustable for
someone to pay you before you deliver
but think about it virtually everything
in your life you pay for up front
go to mcdonald's when do you pay before
you eat go to the pub where do you pay
before you drink
go for a flight when you pay you don't
pay after it and so i'll pay you if
there's no turbulence
or if i enjoyed the flight or something
that's wouldn't it
you know virtually everything in your
life that you pay for that you do you
pay for upfront it's only when
salespeople have something that's really
expensive and sophisticated
but suddenly so no we couldn't expect
them to play up front
yeah and i guess and i guess it it
it gets early commitment right so
especially if you are
unless you software as another example a
lot of software sales especially in the
enterprise
you're talking 50k 75k 100k plus
solutions at times
and i suppose if you are charging them
for this scoping exercise
it gets early buying because once
they've gone through that process with
you
they're they're kind of involved so
you're probably building up a
relationship you're spending time with
the point of contact you're drafting
something together
you're having a lot of back and forth
and then they think as long as they like
you
and they actually get on with what
you're doing you've got you're going to
go
but first of all more importantly to get
to the point where they agree to pay you
for that you must have demonstrated
you're also trustable and someone that
they want to take that risk with
yeah so you're already better than your
competitors
so it's hard to do because it's
uncomfortable but actually
the reality is it's very few people
unless they are tire kickers or
non-decision makers
very few people refuse to stump up a
little bit
if you've done it right you've got to do
the rest of the meeting okay it's not
enough just to get them to agree that if
the rest of the meeting is a complete
pig's err
you ask stupid questions you rub them up
the wrong way
you make them feel uncomfortable then it
ain't gonna work yeah so it's not the
fact that you've
asked them to pay that will probably
ruin it it's the fact that everything
that came after that
turned them off of you yeah and just
before we
we'll spend a little bit of time at the
end talking about more generic damage
but just before we get to that
let's say they have agreed to this free
assessment this free scoping course
whatever it may be
that's our initial paid hook um is it a
case of then we just
run our normal qualification process
that we talked about on the last episode
is there anything else we need to
consider that we perhaps didn't cover
beforehand and anything we need to
mention
last time so so
oh that last time we were just talking
about working inbound leading we did
talk about upfront contracts
um and we talked about kind of going
through these qualification stages
talking about the problems and
making sure they're motivated they've
got budget and their decision maker and
all that good stuff so
is it essentially effectively going
through that and then
well it depends on the complexity of
what you sell right sure
so for instance i sell uh sales training
uh now no one's gonna commit to a six to
12 month
reinforcement training program based off
the back of a
one-hour meeting with me so i
i sell in a proposal but i call it a
taster session
right and in the tracer session i
explained to them
why you do what you do why are you
doomed to repeat it what it is that i'm
going to show you
that's going to help you understand why
you do it then i'm going to show you a
way to fix it
and at the end of that you as a company
make a decision do we want more of this
and if so are we going to commit or do
we not want more of this because i'm not
sure we're willing to do this
and that's it yes we're in or no we're
out
so the second step if you're selling in
a um
bit of software say you would need to
look before we can
determine as an organization if our
software fit for you we're going to have
to figure out a few things what systems
do you run on how many users
so the next step is to dot all those
eyes across those t's
we'll then present you with what that
investment's gonna cost you what the
timelines look like
and we'll give you a document and that's
it whatever's in that document we will
stick to
it won't change if anything happens if
the price
if we screwed up because we didn't ask
certain questions and as a result the
cost goes up we bad at ourselves
because this step is where we properly
look under the hood
and give you the solution and at the end
of that you'll pay for that
but at the end of it you can either give
it to us you could shop it around you
could do nothing or you could do it
yourself but that document will tell you
how to fix your problem
and most people why would they give it
to someone else
when you get if they say well this is
good this is exactly what we want i'm
happy with the time he's not happy with
the money because we've already
discussed that's what we wanted to work
to anyway
so the next step depending on how
complex whatever it is you're selling
will fulfill that need yeah gotcha
gotcha well i'd say that that's very
very very useful with
if we have got if we do offer more of a
custom solution and it's not necessarily
off the shelf let's flip this
yeah and we've only got a few minutes
left but let's say we run more of a
software as a service model
perhaps our our solution is a bit more
generic in the sense that it's kind of
set features um there's not too much we
can chop and change
so it is like people pay x amount a
month and that is what it is so what's
going on with me i sell my boot camps
right telephone possibility and
questioning bootcamps so they don't
change that's an off the shelf
yep off-the-shelf solution exactly right
so
if we have qualified everything let's
say there's a couple of decision makers
maybe we've said that
the sales director needs to be here the
financial director needs to be here the
ceo needs to be involved
three or so people we fired up the demo
are there any best practices that we
need to consider that perhaps people
tend to do that are awful
and that we should be shifting our
mindset towards when we're actually in
front of them
and we've already qualified them and we
to consider
the problem with demos i i don't know if
you've sat through many but i don't set
you a lot
because i think they're a waste of time
but i've sat through quite a lot and the
first thing you realize about most demos
is a person using the system isn't that
very good on it have you noticed
every time they click something it
doesn't do what it's meant to do
and you end up watching them no no i'm
on click here click click click
so the first thing is you better be so
bloody proficient
that it goes smoothly yeah because the
more
complicated you make it look and the
more frustrated the viewer is
watching it yep the less likely they're
going to want but yeah this looks like a
lot you know
this isn't as smooth as i thought that's
the first thing so you need to know how
to deliver it yeah
delivery skill um this is important
everything i teach
is fundamental that a good salesperson
is a good actor you have to be able to
deliver your lines you have to be able
to deliver whatever it is you're doing
and if you it doesn't matter how
knowledgeable you are about something if
you are
crap at communicating it you're going to
get nowhere
so the ability to actually be able to
demonstrate is a skill
so that is a skill just before you go
into that ben i was saying to you before
you hit record i think
this i could be completely off base and
people tell me if i am but i think one
of the
most likable aspects of yourself is not
just you know your stuff
you're to the point you don't you don't
talk but also
you present so well so the way you talk
the way you put things across
is very engaging but as you said a lot
of sales reps
not one don't know their product as well
maybe they can't demonstrate very well
because they're not used to using it
and thirdly their communication skills
their presentation skills
their ability to engage people their
tone of voice and the way they talk
isn't great
so without going too down too much of
rabbit hole is there anything or
anything
um any processes sales people should
actually or business owners should
invest in themselves to be able to hone
in on those skills
which might even be related to sales
it's just communication in general
if you're really crap go on an acting
course
yeah that one learn how to act they're
cheap they're they're
in fact they'll be begging for your
money because they've not been able to
do anything for the last year so it's
going to be very easy
to get uh on an acting call go on an
acting course
uh hire a speech coach to teach you how
to change your voice when to go up when
to go down
figure out when to pause for a fact this
is what actors do
politicians do it as well the best
speakers
you know the people you know some of the
best politicians are the ones that make
you feel comfortable
so the bill clinton's of the world
everyone said when you met him he just
made you feel
special because they know how to make
people comfortable
and that is a fundamental thing that
anyone in sales has to do you have to
make people comfortable
and that means you have to change so i
posted yesterday about this and some
people didn't like him
you know this is be your authentic self
just be
you no don't just be you
because most of you in sales have a
personality that rub people up the wrong
way
what you need to figure out is how do i
change the way i
talk act and speak so that the person
receiving this message is comfortable
with it
that's not being inauthentic it's being
intelligent
yeah it makes it makes sense um
ultimately
if you're if you're a laughy jokey
person and then you're you're speaking
to a ceo that's very serious very
corporate
the chances are from what the example
you've given that that's the first thing
that comes to mind it's probably not
going to go too down too well right
whereas if you're talking in their
language
you're being quite serious you're
getting to the point you're not talking
faff and fiddle
you're getting to the point of the
matter it'll probably go down a bit
better i imagine
start learning personality type so if
you're talking to a ceo or an md or
someone
at director level they have a certain
type of personality
uh particularly on the uh manager there
at ceo side these are what you call blue
sky thinkers they're not
so huge on detail yeah they hate
uh are being spoken over they don't
appear emotional but underneath they are
quite emotional but they hide it behind
a tough guy
veneer they're short sharp clip
directing to the point don't use 30
words when five would suffice
these are people that finish your
sentence so when you're engaging with
them
you need to be more like that now flip
it to
a salesman who's an outgoing gregarious
happy sort of person when you're in
front of them you've got to be
a bit more outgoing gregarious and happy
two
fat loudmouths and hawaiian shirts will
get on fine and sell
fat loudmouth and a hawaiian shirt with
a pin striped accountant
ain't gonna work if the fat loudmouth
just shut up a bit and put on a suit
it's more likely to sell to the other
person so this isn't
being inauthentic this isn't hiding your
true self
this is being smart this is saying i
know
that my personality doesn't work on most
people i meet so i should change me
to make it easier for them to buy from
me so this whole
mantra around just be you is part of
this i
i don't know it's like it's like we're
living on one big oprah winfrey
interview nowadays isn't it you know
there's there's so much bs you only need
to scroll through your linkedin feed
and it's uh it's i mean i've got a vomit
pocket next to me as i read through
linkedin you know because it's just
ah violins playing i don't know
but anyway back to demos so we we've
that was that was a nice little tangent
i think that's useful
um so we've made everyone feel
comfortable let's say
we know our product hopefully we know
how to run a bloody demo
um what's what's next what you need to
present
is only those things which they need to
see to buy
that's it so if you're selling i don't
know
selling a piece of software and it's got
10 really cool functions
but you have established that all your
prospect needs are five of them
that's all they need you only show them
those five
and those five alone because the moment
you start sewing them stuff
they didn't agree they needed or wanted
to see what happens in their brain is oh
well this isn't no no i didn't
know they start to question it so all
you do is mr prospect you told me that
you needed to be able to integrate with
the crm system
this is how our platform does that bash
demonstrate it how does that look yeah
that looks great on a scale of one to
ten ten being
i think we could work with that one
being nah it's not for me where are you
yeah
yeah bob yeah nine ten that looks good
okay point two you said you want to be
able to do this is how we do that
dumb how does that look oh that looks
good this is it you said three and you
go through
all five right that's what you wanted
that's what it does
yes or no are you in
simple as that that's an abridged
version obviously
yeah so people out there listening to
this don't take this literal versus
reality you know whenever i'm talking
i'm giving you the literal but in
reality
this is a very very more nuanced way of
communicating you're not like this
but i want you to see you show them the
things they need to see
to feel comfortable buying let them
discover the other five things
after they've bought it yeah
it's it's it's the easiest way to end
the sale
is to introduce things into the solution
that would never discuss
needed to be seen yep
okay so let's pretend we've shown our
prospect or our prospects
everything we've discussed in our
perhaps previous discovery call
so we've we've identified their problems
we're showing them only the solution
that actually hits their problem attacks
those goals
um is there any way once we've once
we've got their buy-in
that we need to wrap things up um do we
just go for for some kind of clothes or
what
what what do you suggest do we ask for
the sale
no you never asked for the sale uh
all i do i i can speak for my word and
it's translatable pretty much into most
worlds is if i've done my job well i end
with the la
i end with two questions i go all right
so you've seen everything it does on a
scale of 1 to 10 you've said you're a 10
on all of those
couple of questions first question do
you believe that our system will fix and
eliminate all the problems that you
discussed you wanted fixed
now they should say yes if they don't
say yes here something's gone wrong
right
so they say yes and then i'll ask them
why why do you believe that
i've got to get them now to justify back
to me why they said yes because now
they're buying the product
well because it does this it does that
we wanted it to do this and i can see
that
so they're now justifying in their head
and then i end with okay so what do you
want to do
i guess we're in well no you can still
say no
no no no we're in we're in all right
fine
so how do you want to move forwards
what's next well
do you i don't know do you send me an
invoice i could send you an invoice
happy to send you an invoice yeah so
they talk you through it so but again
like i said this is all very abridged
when i work with companies you gotta
figure out how to do this in your
this is a snapshot of you of course this
is a snapshot view this is the literal
but it's very simple uh and once you get
this pattern and once you get this
understanding
i am not there to plead with anyone to
buy my stuff i know i'm good at what i
do i know my software will fix these
problems
so i'm not here at the first part to
convince you now i've shown you it fix
those problems you have to make a
decision
yes we're in or nowhere out and we
already know how much it'll cost and we
already know the people that need to
make the decision are there
so now you have to make a decision
it's pretty straightforward the
how often do once you've gone all
through those those processes how often
do people ever say no
in my world i can only speak from my
world maybe
three to five percent of the time yeah
and it's not because i don't believe
what i won't do will work
it's because they actually acknowledge
they don't feel comfortable doing it
which means the solution the solution
was they just didn't want
it which is fine your solution may fix
someone's problems it doesn't mean they
want it because they may not like it
and that that that is why it's important
when you do a presentation to only
address the things they want to address
and then if they agree that it fixes it
but they still say but i still don't
like it
there's not a lot you can really do
there man is there okay i stopped
fighting yeah or no we're never going to
be able to do this or i don't feel
comfortable doing it
that's fine i'll take that that's a
qualified no i'll take a qualified no
it's over i'm not gonna beg you i've
dignity
yeah another four of these meetings
lined up so i'm not
fussed you know i only need three to buy
off me this month i've got five more to
go
so i'm fine yeah so the only time
you ever have to beg for an order is
when you've got nothing in your pipeline
and you're desperate
so it's your fault it always goes back
to the level of activity
in your pipeline this is the only reason
salespeople put up with crap
is because they're broke i asked this
and i did this the other day to
um hundreds of salespeople i said if you
were a billionaire
and you only sold what you sold because
you loved it you're an evangelist you
loved how it changed people's lives and
made them better and you just wanted as
many people
and you didn't care if people didn't buy
from you because that was irrelevant
because you didn't need their money
would you put up with half the crap your
prospects put you through
everybody always says no so the only
reason you're doing it now is because of
your
selfish motivation for their money
let go stop trying to sell
and only resort to fixing problems and
if they don't see that your solution
fixes it or they do see it fixes it but
they don't like it
i'll take that i don't need your money
hmm nice thank you
it is it is i think i think a lot of
it's mindset and behaviors isn't it
yeah yeah yeah um yeah
certainly yes it's easy to say but it's
something else to actually
do but it goes back to the buddhist
mantra the root of all misery
is attachment
yeah anything anything in your life work
private
whatever if there's something that's
making you miserable
what are you holding on to you know my
boyfriend doesn't love me then leave it
but i love him
you know i hate my job quit i need the
money
then shut up yeah so if you're miserable
you're holding on to something if you
let go
the misery goes well if you let go of
trying to get an order trying to get a
sale trying to get a meaning and just
say actually
i'm just going to get good at how i get
there and whether or not we get there
that's an added bonus
life is a lot easier i think it also
shines through doesn't it if yes in my
experiences
and we'll wrap things up in a sec but
definitely my younger days of selling
because i was sometimes just so keen to
get deals over the line the desperation
comes through in the tone of your voice
yeah and people don't like that people
can sense that your buyers aren't idiots
so they know exactly what's going on
well to demonstrate how
obvious it is we all grew up watching
the simpsons there's that character in
the simpsons the salesman called gill
and gil is an utter nervous wreck loser
that is the stereotype the simpson's
very good at stereotyping
personalities and that's what they came
out gil the loser oh no no gill's not
going to feed his family again tonight
please please buy oh no
that's and that's what a lot of sales
people are like because they start to
act like that oh
okay well look what we could do is we
could maybe um i don't know maybe
maybe there's something i do on the
price you know if i was able to get the
price down
and as a buyer i'm waiting for this
because i know you're desperate to sell
and all i've got to do is say i don't
know
ah maybe uh look i tell you what i i
don't really want to do this but i'll go
on
and then i leave thinking yeah yeah
and it's all because sales people
deserve
the way they get treated if you want to
be treated differently
you've got to act differently the world
doesn't have to change for you
and on that bombshell yeah benjamin hey
thank you very much for coming on sir
please do always a pleasure always
always enjoyable conversation
um do tell us more about how everyone
tuning in can
learn from you how they can connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
please
ah the two best way linkedin obviously
uh so just my name or uk's most hated
south china also i have a youtube
channel
where i put up a lot of content uh me
making live phone calls
um and oh seeing as we are live now
maybe people watching i've got two boot
camps questioning strategies and
telephone
on the 5th and 6th of may they will be
the last ones until the autumn
i've had enough i've done about 40 of
these things in the last 12 months so
i'm taking a break
so if you want to if you've been sitting
on the sidelines lurking and
procrastinating
this is the opportunity because they
won't be back until autumn
and who knows what'll happen between now
and autumn
nice one sir thank you once again
benjamin really appreciate you coming on
and uh it's been good fun
thank you cheers and this is a cheeky
rare plug from myself we're actually
looking for a
new sponsor to get in front of our
audience of thousands of sales
professionals and business owners of
small medium businesses
each and every week so if you are on the
software space the sas space or the tech
space
and you want to get in front of our
audience then do drop me a message sam
dunning on linkedin
or get in touch by business growth
marketing businessgrowth.marketing the
website
and we'd love to speak to you as well as
that all of benjamin's details will be
on the
website and apart from that we really
appreciate you tuning in and we'll catch
you on the next
episode of business growth show